Update scripting/lua to include information on building LuaIDE/GridHub (#1001)
o3de/o3de.org: content/docs/user-guide/scripting/lua/debugging-tutorial.md

---
linkTitle: Debugging with Lua Editor
title: Debugging with Lua Editor

> description: Use Lua Editor to debug Lua scripts in Open 3D Engine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Use Lua Editor to debug Lua scripts in Open 3D Engine (O3DE).
```

toc: true
weight: 900
---

> O3DE **Lua Editor** (Lua IDE) offers an intuitive integrated development environment (IDE) that makes it easy to author, debug, and edit Lua scripts when you create or extend your game. Lua Editor is a standalone application, but can be opened directly from **O3DE Editor** using the Tools menu.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
O3DE **Lua Editor** (Lua IDE) offers an intuitive integrated development environment (IDE) that makes it easy to author, debug, and edit Lua scripts when you create or extend your game. Lua Editor is a standalone application, but you can open it directly in **O3DE Editor** from the Tools menu.
```

This tutorial shows you how to use O3DE Lua Editor to perform debugging operations on a sample script.

> ## Create an entity with a Lua Script component

Reviewer 2: The section title puts too much emphasis on creating an entity, in my opinion. How about:
```suggestion
## Add sample Lua Script to an entity
```

1. In the **Lua Script** component, click the **Open in Lua Editor** button to launch Lua Editor.

    ![Launch Lua Editor from Lua Script component in O3DE Editor](/images/user-guide/scripting/lua/lua-component-open-in-lua-editor.png)
    
## Connect to O3DE Editor with GridHub

Connection is facilitated by **GridHub**, which is O3DE's central connection hub for debugging. GridHub starts automatically when Lua Editor is started and must be running in the background for Lua Editor to find targets it can connect to.  Because the debugging functionality is enabled through network sockets, you must connect Lua Editor to the target that is running the script before you can debug. In this tutorial, you connect to O3DE Editor.

> 1. In the Lua Editor toolbar, click **Target: None**, and then click **Editor(*ID*)** to connect to O3DE Editor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the Lua Editor toolbar, choose **Target: None**, and then choose **Editor(*ID*)** to connect to O3DE Editor.
```
Replace click with choose throughout.

The class reference feature is active only for the default context and component entity scripts.
{{< /note >}}

> ## Setting Breakpoints

Reviewer 2: I think breakpoints is used as a generic term in this context, therefore no capitalization.
```suggestion
## Setting breakpoints
```

> After you connect, you can pause the execution of a given script by setting breakpoints.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you connect, you can pause the execution of a given script by setting breakpoints.
```
Perhaps say "...you can pause a script by setting breakpoints."
